README.md, before:

# User Centric Front-end Project- Milestone 1 Naomi Wickham

This website is for the flute and guitar duo “Sidetrack” to showcase their music
and publicise their availability to perform at events. Users can also contact the duo
to enquire about availability or upcoming performances. 

## UX

The duo’s primary target audiences are their “family, friends and other fans” 
who wish to keep abreast of our gigs, past and upcoming. 
They would like to showcase their music and publicise their availability to perform at events
such as weddings, funerals and dinner parties.


They wish to include:

- Photos of performances
- Some video clips
- Some audio clips to demonstrate their diversity of repertoire
- A list of current repertoires
- An option to promote additions to the repertoire

In addition, the website should promote live music in Port Adelaide, in particular

- The Railway Hotel – Port Adelaide
    www.railwayhotelportadelaide.com/
- Michonne Wine Bar: Michonne - Reds, Whites and Bites
    www.michonne.com.au/

### Wireframes
![alt wireframe](wireframes/mobileindex.png "mobileindex")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/mobileperformances.png "mobileperformances")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/mobilecontactus.png "mobilecontactus")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/about.png "about")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/performances.png "performances")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/soundclips.png "sounclips")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/contactus.png "contactus")

## Features

- Striking Image to capture attention used as background Imagery
- Easy Navigation including "back to top" link 
- Links to external websites
- Contact us Form to contact band regarding availabilities and performances
- Image Carousel
- Video for a soundclip sample
- Mobile responsive design

### Features left to implement

- Facebook page is yet to be set up so link is currently back to the index page
- Additional soundclips
- Repertoire list
- Upcoming performances list
- Contact us form to be linked to external server for posting 
- Ensure website is responsive for tablet users 

## Technologies used

Base languages used to create website include HTML, CSS and JavaScript

###	JQuery to support the implementation of JavaScript and Bootstrap
 https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.2.1.min.js
https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.7/js/bootstrap.min.js

###	Bootstrap framework for main Navigation and layout
https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.7/css/bootstrap.min.css

###	Carousel- Bootstrap used to implement image carousel on performances page
https://www.w3schools.com/bootstrap/bootstrap_carousel.asp


###   Bootstrap-Font Awesome used for facebook social media link icon
https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css

###	Google fonts- Monoton Font used to create band logo. 
https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Monoton

###	Hover css used to animate navigation
https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/hover.css/2.3.1/css/hover-min.css

## Site can be viewed [Here]
https://blueag8.github.io/Sidetrack/index.html

## Link to C9 Development [Here]
https://ide.c9.io/blueag8/ucfd-project

## Testing 

### Responsive Design Mobile First
Site viewed and tested using 
Mobile 
- Samsung Galaxy 
- iphone 6

Desktop (Devtools)
- Chrome
- Internet Explorer

Collapse Navigation Bar for mobile design, Responsive Images to scale to fit viewport, Stack vertically affiliate links
on Performance page, Ensure links work. 

### Navigation
    Ensured links to pages including external websites weren't broken 
    External links open in new tab


### Contact Us Form 
    Submitted the empty form to verify that an error message about the required fields appears
    link opens to compose email on users browser

    
### Soundclip 
    Ensured video will play on multiple browsers
    Ensured there are controls to play video active
    
    
### Difficulties encountered

1. Background Image disappearing and not scaling 
2. Carousel animation jumping
3.  Social Media links not lining up
4.  Images not responding when change in viewport ie desktop to mobile view

#### Solutions

i.
ii.
iii.
iv.



## Deployment
Site deployed using Github

Initially the background images disappeared when deployed through Github however,
this was rectified with a correction to the image filepath. 

## Credits

### Content

    Content supplied by “Sidetrack” - Catherine Jamieson

### Media 

	The photos used in this site were obtained from the duo. 
	Professional photography by Henk DeWeerd
	Background image on the performances page only has been used from a third party with credit to
	https://www.pexels.com/photo/acoustic-guitar-gerritt-tisdale-guitar-martin-guitar-938489
	Treble Clef image using code on About page from:
	http://www.codetable.net/decimal/119070
    Images resized and converted to PNG thanks to:
    https://tinyjpg.com/

## Acknowledgements

Mentor
- Antonio Rodriguez 

CodeInstitute
- In particular "Bootstrapping Your Next Big Idea"

Slack
- Kevin Curtis, Jo Wings, Mormoran, Eventyret_Mentor, JohnL3

Commit message:

enriched footer and enhanced site with animation

README.md, after:

# User Centric Front-end Project- Milestone 1 Naomi Wickham

## Site can be viewed [Here]
https://blueag8.github.io/Sidetrack/index.html

## Link to C9 Development [Here]
https://ide.c9.io/blueag8/ucfd-project

## About
This website is for the flute and guitar duo “Sidetrack” to showcase their music
and publicise their availability to perform at events. Users can also contact the duo
to enquire about availability or upcoming performances. 

## UX

The duo’s primary target audiences are their “family, friends and other fans” 
who wish to keep abreast of our gigs, past and upcoming. 
They would like to showcase their music and publicise their availability to perform at events
such as weddings, funerals and dinner parties.


They wish to include:

- Photos of performances
- Some video clips
- Some audio clips to demonstrate their diversity of repertoire
- A list of current repertoires
- An option to promote additions to the repertoire

In addition, the website should promote live music in Port Adelaide, in particular

- The Railway Hotel – Port Adelaide
    www.railwayhotelportadelaide.com/
- Michonne Wine Bar: Michonne - Reds, Whites and Bites
    www.michonne.com.au/

### Wireframes
![alt wireframe](wireframes/mobileindex.png "mobileindex")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/mobileperformances.png "mobileperformances")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/mobilecontactus.png "mobilecontactus")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/about.png "about")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/performances.png "performances")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/soundclips.png "sounclips")
![alt wireframes](wireframes/contactus.png "contactus")

## Features

- Striking Image to capture attention used as background Imagery
- Easy Navigation including "back to top" link 
- Links to external websites
- Contact us Form to contact band regarding availabilities and performances
- Image Carousel
- Video for a soundclip sample
- Mobile responsive design

### Features left to implement

- Facebook page is yet to be set up so link is currently back to the index page
- Additional soundclips
- Repertoire list
- Upcoming performances list
- Contact us form to be linked to external server for posting 
- Ensure website is responsive for tablet users 

## Technologies used

Base languages used to create website include HTML, CSS and JavaScript

###	JQuery to support the implementation of JavaScript and Bootstrap
 https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.2.1.min.js
https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.7/js/bootstrap.min.js

###	Bootstrap framework for main Navigation and layout
https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.7/css/bootstrap.min.css

###	Carousel- Bootstrap used to implement image carousel on performances page
https://www.w3schools.com/bootstrap/bootstrap_carousel.asp


###   Bootstrap-Font Awesome used for facebook social media link icon
https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css

###	Google fonts- Monoton Font used to create band logo. 
https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Monoton

###	Hover css used to animate navigation
https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/hover.css/2.3.1/css/hover-min.css


## Testing 

### Responsive Design Mobile First
Site viewed and tested using 
Mobile 
- Samsung Galaxy 
- iphone 6

Desktop (Devtools)
- Chrome
- Internet Explorer

Collapse Navigation Bar for mobile design, Responsive Images to scale to fit viewport, Stack vertically affiliate links
on Performance page, Ensure links work. 

### Navigation
    Ensured links to pages including external websites weren't broken 
    External links open in new tab


### Contact Us Form 
    Submitted the empty form to verify that an error message about the required fields appears
    link opens to compose email on users browser

    
### Soundclip 
    Ensured video will play on multiple browsers
    Ensured there are controls to play video active
    
    
### Difficulties/issues encountered

1. Background Image disappearing and not scaling 
2. Carousel animation jumping
3.  Social Media links not lining up
4.  Images not responding when change in viewport ie desktop to mobile view
5.  Was not obvious to the user when a page change had occured without 
   seeing the URL or scrolling down the page.
6. Animation causing page to jump

#### Solutions

i.
ii.
iii.
iv.



## Deployment
Site deployed using Github

Initially the background images disappeared when deployed through Github however,
this was rectified with a correction to the image filepath. 

## Credits

### Content

    Content supplied by “Sidetrack” - Catherine Jamieson

### Media 

	The photos used in this site were obtained from the duo. 
	Professional photography by Henk DeWeerd
	Background image on the performances page only has been used from a third party with credit to
	https://www.pexels.com/photo/acoustic-guitar-gerritt-tisdale-guitar-martin-guitar-938489
	Treble Clef image using code on About page from:
	http://www.codetable.net/decimal/119070
    Images resized and converted to PNG thanks to:
    https://tinyjpg.com/

## Acknowledgements

Mentor
- Antonio Rodriguez 

CodeInstitute
- In particular "Bootstrapping Your Next Big Idea"

Slack
- Kevin Curtis, Jo Wings, Mormoran, Eventyret_Mentor, JohnL3,
- E.Fred, ShaneMuir_lead
